International desserts: 50 famous desserts around the world Imagine the best dessert on Earth. Then ask other people their favorites. Bet you dollars to doughnuts, their answer is different from yours. From childhood treats to a grandparent’s favorite recipes, beloved foods are deeply personal. This seems especially true of desserts. For all the nostalgia of sugary treats, though, some sweets rise above local flavors. Head to any country to find tender slices of Italian tiramisú on cafe menus or sniff out the creamy scent of Hong Kong’s dan tats in cities worldwide. And like dan tats, many of these recipes aren’t desserts at all – the eggy tart is more often eaten as an afternoon snack. The idea of serving a sweet at the end of a coursed meal is relatively recent. In some destinations, including Africa and Asia, desserts are a foreign import. But with food, like language or culture, determining what’s “foreign” is complicated. Tiramisú relies on chocolate, coffee and sugar that arrived in Italy through global trade, while Hong Kong’s most iconic sweet has roots in Portugal. This list blends the personal with something more broadly appealing. It’s the fruit of my nine years in the pastry kitchen, when I traveled to explore new flavors everywhere. In alphabetical order, here are some of the best desserts around the world: Alfajores, South America 09 50 sweets travel_alfajores Shutterstock Step into a neighborhood bakery from Argentina to Peru, and you’re likely to find these tender, filled cookies piled high behind the counter. The crumbly bite of shortbread gives way to a sweet layer of dulce de leche, a caramel-like candy made by gently cooking sweetened milk until it turns into a rich, mellow treat. The very simplicity of the cookies has proved to be the perfect base for creative cooks across Latin America. Try versions that are dunked in dark chocolate, coated in a sweet layer of white chocolate, rolled in coconut and dressed up with spices, or opt for the classic – it’s among the world’s most comforting snacks. Apfelstrudel, Austria 30 50 sweets travel_apfelstrudel RESTRICTED Natasha Breen/REDA&CO/UIG/Getty Images For a floury lesson in gluten’s architectural wonders, whip up a batch of traditional strudel dough. The real thing is stretched – not rolled – into an improbably thin sheet; according to legend, it should be transparent enough to read a newspaper through. Once extended, the delicate dough is wrapped around a sweet, apple filling that’s enriched with buttery fried breadcrumbs, raisins and sometimes walnuts. The delicious result can be found in pastry shops around the world though Vienna provides the classic experience. Baklava, Turkey 41 50 sweets travel_baklava Shutterstock Dozens of delicate layers melt into a single tender bite in this syrupy confection, which is among the sweetest legacies of the Ottoman Empire. While it remains a sought-after treat through the Levant, Balkans, the Caucasus and North Africa – regions that were once ruled from Constantinople – the spiritual home of baklava is surely the modern-day country of Turkey. There, pastry shops serve great trays sliced into diamonds, filled with ground nuts and dripping with honeyed syrup. This is just the most famous of the Ottoman Empire’s syrup-soaked pastries, but it’s snagged the limelight for good reason. With a simple list of ingredients and endless variations, it easily ranks among the world’s most tempting treats. Black Forest Cake, Germany 21 50 sweets travel_black forest cake Shutterstock Along with fairy tales and mountain-top castles, Germany’s Black Forest region is known as the namesake – if not the origin – of the country’s most luscious cake. Dark rounds of chocolate cake are doused in a cherry syrup spiked with kirschwasser, a sour cherry brandy, then stacked atop a thin, chocolate base with deep layers of whipped cream and fresh cherries. If that wasn’t flavor enough, the whole thing is swathed in more cream, dusted with shaved chocolate and studded with cherries. The resulting cake is a frothy dream dessert that’s the star of pastry cases around Germany, where it’s known as a Schwarzwälder Kirschtorte. 